W-11350739-batch-aggregator-clarifications (#2265)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/batch-phases.adoc

= Batch Job Phases

Each time a Batch Job component executes, the following phases take place:

> * <<phase_load_dispatch>>: The Batch Job component splits xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#valid_input[valid input] into records and prepares the records for processing. This phase takes place within the Batch Job component.

Reviewer: should these be a numbered list instead of bullets?

* <<phase_process>>: Mule components and connector operations within one or more Batch Step components in the Batch Job process records within a given batch job instance. Processing within a Batch Aggregator component also occurs in the Process phase.

> * <<phase_on_complete>>: The Batch Job component issues a report object with the result of processing the batch job instance instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<phase_on_complete>>: The Batch Job component issues a report object with the result of processing the batch job instance.
```

For an example, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch_phases_xml[batch phase XML].

[[phase_load_dispatch]]
== Load and Dispatch Phase

When an upstream event in the flow triggers the Batch Job component, the Load and Dispatch phase begins. In this phase, the following occurs:

. Mule creates a new batch job instance that persists through each phase of a batch job.
+
[[batchJobInstanceId]]
Within the scope of the Batch Job component, Mule exposes the currently processing batch job instance ID through the `batchJobInstanceId` variable. You can use `vars.batchJobInstanceId` to access the identifier of the current instance in any batch processing phase. The auto-generated identifier is a UUID, but you can change it to a different value. For details, see xref:batch-job-instance-id.adoc[].
+

> . The Batch Job component automatically splits the received message payload into records and stores the records in the stepping queue.

Reviewer: do you need "stepping"? It's fine, if it's a thing, ignore me when I bring it up 🤣

Author: It's what we've always called it, so I hesitate to change the name, and it is a queue for the Batch Step, which I think inspired the name. And it sounds like something vaguely associated with Irish step dancing, so... 🤣

+

> The split is "all or nothing," which means that the Batch Job component either successfully generates and queues a record for every item from the input, or the entire event fails with an error type, such as `MULE:EXPRESSION` message, and an error message, such as `"Expecting Array or Object but got String." evaluating expression: "payload".`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Batch Job component either successfully generates and queues a record for every item from the input, or the entire event fails with an error type, such as `MULE:EXPRESSION` message, and an error message, such as `"Expecting Array or Object but got String." evaluating expression: "payload".`
```

Reviewer: Just wondering if that phrase is really necessary?

+
In Anypoint Runtime Manager, the queue name is prefixed with `BSQ`, for example:
+
image:mruntime-batch-bsq.png[Batch step queue transaction log]
+
. The Batch Job component starts the execution of a batch job instance that processes the loaded records.

[[phase_process]]
== Process Phase

> The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts execution of a batch job instance. In this phase, Batch Step components concurrently pull record blocks of the configured size from the queue to process them (the default batch block size is 100).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts execution of a batch job instance. In this phase, Batch Step components concurrently pull record blocks of the configured size from the queue to process them. (The default batch block size is 100.)
```

Within the Batch Step component, processing takes place in parallel at the block level, but records within each block process sequentially by default. Mule uses its auto-tuning capabilities to determine how many threads to use and the level of parallelism to apply (see xref:execution-engine.adoc[Execution Engine]).

> During this phase, processors within the components can access and modify records using the Mule variables `payload` and `vars`. The Batch Job component consumes records after all record processing finishes. So any transmission of _processed_ records to an external server or service must take place _within_ the Batch Step or Batch Aggregator components. For Mule variable propagation rules, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#variable_propagation[Variable Propagation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this phase, processors within the components can access and modify records using the `payload` and `vars` Mule variables. The Batch Job component consumes records after all record processing finishes. So any transmission of _processed_ records to an external server or service must take place _within_ the Batch Step or Batch Aggregator components. For Mule variable propagation rules, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#variable_propagation[Variable Propagation].
```

> After processing records in a block, the Batch Step sends the records back to the stepping queue, where the records await by the next Batch Step component. This process continues until every record passes through every Batch Step component within the same Batch Job component. At the end of this phase, all records are consumed. They are not available for further processing by downstream processors in the Mule flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After processing records in a block, the Batch Step sends the records back to the stepping queue where the records wait for the next Batch Step component. This process continues until every record passes through every Batch Step component within the same Batch Job component. At the end of this phase, all records are consumed. They are not available for further processing by downstream processors in the Mule flow.
```

> Note that changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator component. So the changes are not visible to subsequent Batch Step components in the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that since changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator component, changes are not visible to subsequent Batch Step components in the flow.
```

Reviewer: Just wondering if this is better as once sentence to main the cause and effect relationship?

image::mruntime-batch-step-process.png[Record Stepping Queue for Batch Steps]

As processing takes place, each record keeps track of all  Batch Step components that process it.

[[batch_aggregator_processing]]

> By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one Batch Step component before making them available for processing by the next. Configuring a Batch Aggregator component changes this behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one Batch Step component before making them available for processing by the next Batch Step component. Configuring a Batch Aggregator component changes this behavior:
```

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator component sets a fixed size:
+

> A processor within Batch Aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A processor within the Batch Aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.
```

+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-fixed.png[Batch job process with Aggregator with fixed size]
+
[calloutlist]
. Each Batch Step component within a Batch Job component receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
. After processing a record, the Batch Step component sends the record to the Batch Aggregator component for further processing.
. When set to process a fixed size (`size`), the Aggregator component arranges the records into one or more blocks containing the specified number of records. If fewer records are available than the configured size, the last block of records is smaller.

> . After processing records in a given array, the Batch Aggregator component sends all the records back to the stepping queue.

Reviewer: same question about "stepping"

Author: 🕺

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator component is configured to stream records:
+
When streaming, the Batch Aggregator component processes records as soon as it receives them instead of putting them into record blocks. No record is exposed to the _next_ Batch Step component in the flow until all the records in the Aggregator processes all records in the _current_ Batch Step.
+
A processor within the component must be able to accept an array of records as input.
+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-streaming.png[Batch job process with Aggregator configured for Streaming]
+
[calloutlist]

> . Each Batch Step components receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Each Batch Step component receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
```

. After the Batch Step processes a record, the Batch Step sends the record to Batch Aggregator for further processing.

> . The Batch Aggregator component continues processing records until there are no more records in the stepping queue that are waiting to be processed by the current Batch Step.

Reviewer: stepping?

Author: 👯

. The Batch Aggregator component sends all the aggregated records to the stepping queue.

Mule retains a list of all records that succeed or fail to process through each Batch Step. If an event processor in a Batch Step fails to process a record, Mule continues processing the batch, skipping over the failed record in each subsequent Batch Step. The Batch Job component provides the `maxFailedRecords` property for setting the number records that can fail before the batch job stops. See xref:batch-reference.adoc#ref_batch_job_general_fields[Batch Job Properties].

[[phase_on_complete]]
== On Complete Phase

> During this phase, you can configure the runtime to create a report or summary of the records it processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded, but it does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this phase, you can configure Mule runtime to create a report or summary of the records it processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded, but it does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.
```

At the end of this phase, the batch job instance completes and ceases to exist.

As a best practice, configure a mechanism for reporting on failed or successful records to facilitate further action where required. During the On Complete phase, you can perform either of these tasks:

> * Reference the result object for the batch job instance from elsewhere in the Mule application to capture and use batch metadata, such as the number of records that failed to process in a particular batch job instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reference the result object of the batch job instance from elsewhere in the Mule application to capture and use batch job metadata, such as the number of records that failed to process in a particular batch job instance.
```

//TODO: EXPLAIN HOW TO REFERENCE THIS OBJECT FROM OUTSIDE THE BATCH JOB

> * Log the result object for each batch job instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Log the result object for each batch job instance:
```

= Batch Job Phases

Each time a Batch Job component executes, the following phases take place:

* <<phase_load_dispatch>>: The Batch Job component splits xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#valid_input[valid input] into records and prepares the records for processing. This phase takes place within the Batch Job component.

> * <<phase_process>>: Mule components and connector operations within a Batch Step and, optionally, Batch Aggregator process records within a given batch job instance.

Reviewer 2: Can we change this in order to reflect that there may be several steps? I would also remove the Aggregator form here, since it is a component inside the Step.

"Mule components within the different Batch Steps concurrently process the available records"

Author: PARTIALLY DONE:

> Mule components and connector operations within one or more Batch Step components in the Batch Job process records within a given batch job instance. Processing within a Batch Aggregator component also occurs in the Process phase.

Looks like we will discuss concurrent processing within Batch Steps later, around line 36. See comment below.

Author: ivan: looks ok

> * <<phase_on_complete>>: The Batch Job component issues a report object with the result of processing the batch job instance instance. In Studio, a processor for this phase, such as a Logger, goes within the On Complete area (`<batch:on-complete />` ) of the Batch Job component.

Reviewer 2: I don't see useful to mention that Studio adds a logger. It's something that we can omit here:

"The Batch Job component issues a report object with the result of the execution."

Author: DONE: removed "In Studio ..."

For an example, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#batch_phases_xml[batch phase XML].

[[phase_load_dispatch]]
== Load and Dispatch Phase

When an upstream event in the flow triggers the Batch Job component, the Load and Dispatch phase begins. In this phase, the following occurs:

. Mule creates a new batch job instance that persists through each phase of a batch job.
+
[[batchJobInstanceId]]

> Within the scope of the Batch Job component, Mule exposes each batch job instance through the `batchJobInstanceId` variable. You can use `vars.batchJobInstanceId` to access the identifier for an instance in any batch processing phase. The auto-generated identifier is a UUID, but you can change it to a more readable name. For details, see xref:batch-job-instance-id.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within the scope of the Batch Job component, Mule exposes the current batch job instance id through the `batchJobInstanceId` variable. You can use `vars.batchJobInstanceId` to access the identifier of the current instance in any batch processing phase. The auto-generated identifier is an UUID, but you can change it to a different value. For details, see xref:batch-job-instance-id.adoc[].
```

Author: DONE modified:

> Within the scope of the Batch Job component, Mule exposes the currently processing batch job instance ID through the `batchJobInstanceId` variable. You can use `vars.batchJobInstanceId` to access the identifier of the current instance in any batch processing phase. The auto-generated identifier is a UUID, but you can change it to a different value. For details, see xref:batch-job-instance-id.adoc[].

+

> . Mule automatically uses DataWeave to split the input to the Batch Job component into records and stores the records in a persistent queue. The input is a serialized message payload that Mule splits into a collection of records. During the <<phase_process, Process phase>>, a Batch Step component pulls records from this queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The Batch Job component automatically splits the received message payload into records and stores the records in the Record Stepping Queue.
```

Author: DONE edited to 

> The Batch Job component automatically splits the received message payload into records and stores the records in the stepping queue.

+

> This activity is "all or nothing," which means that Mule either successfully generates and queues a record for every item from the input, or the entire event fails with an error type, such as `MULE:EXPRESSION` message, and an error message, such as `"Expecting Array or Object but got String." evaluating expression: "payload".`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The split is "all or nothing," which means that the Batch Job either successfully generates and queues a record for every item from the input, or the entire event fails with an error type, such as `MULE:EXPRESSION` message, and an error message, such as `"Expecting Array or Object but got String." evaluating expression: "payload".`
```

Author: DONE

+

> In Anypoint Runtime Manager, the queue name is prefixed with `BSQ`, for example:

Reviewer 2: Where is this piece of knowledge coming from? (not sure about including it or not, I would say no, but want to discuss about it).

Author: TODO/TBD: this was in the existing doc, in step #2 here: https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.4/batch-processing-concept#load-and-dispatch

Need to test it.

Author: ivan: does RTM info belong here?

Author: TODO: can try to load an app to CH and look for bsq

Author: DONE

+
image:mruntime-batch-bsq.png[Batch step queue transaction log]
+

> . Mule presents the batch job instance and queue of records to its first Batch Step component for processing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The Batch Job starts the execution of a batch job instance that will process the loaded records.
```

Author: DONE reworded

> The Batch Job component starts the execution of a batch job instance that processes the loaded records.

> Each operation within this phase blocks other execution within the flow until it completes. The logs identify them as `BLOCKING` operations. After this phase completes, the flow continues to execute without waiting for batch processing operations in the next phase to execute or finish processing records they receive.

Reviewer 2: Which are the operations that we are talking about? I assume that we are talking about the "load and dispatch" phase but If the logs show something as BLOCKING, I want to ckeck it with you.

Author: TODO, yes, in the logs. See, for example:

> INFO  ...w-batch-take105Flow.**BLOCKING** @7deec86c]..._Created instance_ '7e0712a0-71b7-11ed-84d0-147ddaaf4f97' ...

> INFO  ...w-batch-take105].w-batch-take105Flow.**BLOCKING** @7deec86c]...BatchQueueLoader: _Starting loading phase for instance_ '7e0712a0-71b7-11ed-84d0-147ddaaf4f97' ...

> INFO  ...w-batch-take105Flow.**BLOCKING** @7deec86c] [processor: ; event: 7daf0790-71b7-11ed-84d0-147ddaaf4f97] ...BatchQueueLoader: _Finished loading phase for instance_ 7e0712a0-71b7-11ed-84d0-147ddaaf4f97 ... 10 records were loaded

> INFO  ...w-batch-take105Flow.**BLOCKING** @7deec86c] ...DefaultBatchEngine: _Started execution of instance_ '7e0712a0-71b7-11ed-84d0-147ddaaf4f97' of job 'w-batch-take105Batch_Job'

Author: Ivan: important part is the the processing phase doesn't start until the loading phase finishes

Author: DONE: removed the paragraph. The fact that process doesn't start until l&d completes is already covered.

[[phase_process]]
== Process Phase

> The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts execution of a batch job instance. In this phase, Mule pulls records from the queue to build record blocks of the configured batch block size (100 records per block, by default). Then Mule sends the blocks to the Batch Step component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Process phase begins after the Load and Dispatch phase finishes loading records to the queue and starts execution of a batch job instance. In this phase, The Batch Steps concurrently pull record blocks of the configured size from the queue in order to process them (the default batch block size is 100).
```

Author: @IvanAndresFritzler Do we mean that if there are multiple Batch Step components in the flow, the steps are concurrently pulling records from the stepping queue for a given batch job instance (once the records are available in the queue)?

Author: TODO

Author: ivan: yes
all batch steps trying to get records at the same time

Author: DONE: suggested change was committed.

Within the Batch Step component, processing takes place in parallel at the block level, but records within each block process sequentially by default. Mule uses its auto-tuning capabilities to determine how many threads to use and the level of parallelism to apply (see xref:execution-engine.adoc[Execution Engine]).

> During this phase, processors within the components can access and modify records using the Mule variables `payload` and `vars`, but _not_ `attributes` because the Batch Job component ignores Mule attributes and does not make them available to its child components. The Batch Job component consumes records after all record processing finishes. So any transmission of _processed_ records to an external server or service must take place _within_ the Batch Step or Batch Aggregator components. For Mule variable propagation rules, see xref:batch-processing-concept.adoc#variable_propagation[Variable Propagation].

Reviewer 2: We need to move the part that explains that the attributes are not propagated to the split phase (it is there that the attributes from the incoming message are not included in the generated records).

The record "consumption" clarification can be moved to the on complete phase or to the following paragraph, since it is there that it becomes clear that the output of the batch job instance execution is just a summary of the processing, and the records are no longer there.

With that, we only have the variable propagation explanation here, so we should describe a bit more about that.

Author: TODO: maybe we remove the entire paragraph, since all is discussed elsewhere. An advantage of having it here is that it summarizes everything that is detailed later. TBD

Author: Ivan: when create the records, not including the attributes, which happens in the l&d phase.

Author: remove ", but _not_ `attributes` because the Batch Job component ignores Mule attributes and does not make them available to its child components"

Author: DONE

> After processing all the records in a block, a Batch Step component sends the records back to the stepping queue, where the records await processing by any Aggregator component within the Batch Step component or by the next Batch Step component, if another is present. This process continues until every record passes through every Batch Step component within the same Batch Job component. At the end of this phase, all records are consumed. They are not available for further processing by downstream processors in the Mule flow.

Reviewer 2: I think that the aggregator is executed prior to send the records back to the queue. We need to review this execution and describe it properly.

Author: TODO

Author: aggregator gets the records directly from the batch step, not from the queue!

Author: DONE:

CHANGED TO 

> After processing records in a block, the Batch Step sends the records back to the stepping queue, where the records await by the next Batch Step component. This process continues until every record passes through every Batch Step component within the same Batch Job component. At the end of this phase, all records are consumed. They are not available for further processing by downstream processors in the Mule flow.
> 
> Note that changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator component. So the changes are not visible to subsequent Batch Step components in the flow.

> Note that changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator to the containing Batch Step component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator scope, so they will not be visible to the following  Batch Steps.
```

Author: DONE reworded

> Note that changes to records that take place within a Batch Aggregator component _are not propagated_ outside of Batch Aggregator component. So the changes are not visible to subsequent Batch Step components in the flow.

image::mruntime-batch-step-process.png[Record Stepping Queue for Batch Steps]

> As processing takes place, each record keeps track of every Batch Step component it completes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As processing takes place, each record keeps track of every Batch Step component that already processed it.
```

Author: DONE, changed to :

> As processing takes place, each record keeps track of all  Batch Step components that process it.

[[batch_aggregator_processing]]
By default, a batch job instance does not wait for all its queued records to finish processing in one Batch Step component before making them available for processing by the next. Configuring a Batch Aggregator component changes this behavior:

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator component sets a fixed size:
+

> In this scenario, the Batch Aggregator pulls records for a given batch job instance from the stepping queue into arrays a fixed size. If fewer records are available than the fixed size setting, Batch Aggregator pulls those records into the array without waiting for more. After processing records in an array, Batch Aggregator sends the records back to the stepping queue _without modifications_ caused by any processors within Batch Aggregator.

Reviewer 2: This is not exactly what happens. The aggregator just gives you the chance to do something with a group of records that the Step already processed. It is part of the step, but if it is a fixed size aggregator, the next steps will also pull records that the current step already processed (including the aggregator). What actually changes is that the records go back to the stepping queue in blocks of the size of the Batch Aggregator size. I think that we can remove this paragraphs and go straight to the [callout list] but let's discuss how it will be.

Author: TODO: let's test this together.

Author: same issue, not from the queue but from the step

plus Ivan's explanation

Author: DONE: removed paragraph

+
A processor within Batch Aggregator must be able to receive the array of records as input.
+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-fixed.png[Batch job process with Aggregator with fixed size]
+
[calloutlist]
. Each Batch Step component within a Batch Job component receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
. After processing a record, the Batch Step component sends the record to the Batch Aggregator component for further processing.

> . The Batch Aggregator component places records into one or more arrays according to its `size` configuration. If fewer records are available from the queue than the configured size, the component pulls them into the component for processing. This scenario can occur, for example, when the size setting does not divide evenly into the number of records. The last set of records is smaller than the other sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The fixed size Batch Aggregator component arranges the records into one or more blocks according to its `Aggregator size` configuration in order to process them as a whole. If fewer records are available than the configured size, then the last block of records will be smaller.
```

Author: DONE reworded:

> When set to process a fixed size (`size`), the Aggregator component arranges the records into one or more blocks containing the specified number of records. If fewer records are available than the configured size, the last block of records is smaller.

. After processing records in a given array, the Batch Aggregator component sends all the records back to the stepping queue.

* Behavior when the Batch Aggregator component is configured to stream records:
+

> In this scenario, the Batch Job component sends the processed records to its Batch Aggregator component. The Batch Aggregator component loads an array with  records from the stepping queue until all records from the current Batch Step for a given batch job instance are aggregated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The streaming Batch Aggregator component process the records as soon as it receives them instead of arrange them in blocks. No record will be exposed to the next step until all the records of the curren step have been processed by the aggregator.
```

Author: TODO: style guidelines only on change

Author: DONE: changed to 

> When streaming, the Batch Aggregator component processes records as soon as it receives them instead of putting them into record blocks. No record is exposed to the _next_ Batch Step component in the flow until all the records in the Aggregator processes all records in the _current_ Batch Step.

+
A processor within the component must be able to accept an array of records as input.
+
image:mruntime-batch-job-process-aggregator-streaming.png[Batch job process with Aggregator configured for Streaming]
+
[calloutlist]
. Each Batch Step components receives one or more record blocks and starts processing them in parallel.
. After the Batch Step processes a record, the Batch Step sends the record to Batch Aggregator for further processing.
. The Batch Aggregator component continues processing records until there are no more records in the stepping queue that are waiting to be processed by the current Batch Step.
. The Batch Aggregator component sends all the aggregated records to the stepping queue.

Mule retains a list of all records that succeed or fail to process through each Batch Step. If an event processor in a Batch Step fails to process a record, Mule continues processing the batch, skipping over the failed record in each subsequent Batch Step. The Batch Job component provides the `maxFailedRecords` property for setting the number records that can fail before the batch job stops. See xref:batch-reference.adoc#ref_batch_job_general_fields[Batch Job Properties].

> At the end of this phase, the batch job instance completes and ceases to exist.

Reviewer 2: This happens at the end of the on complete phase.

Author: TODO: MOVE TO ON COMPLETE SECTION

Author: DONE: Moved

[[phase_on_complete]]
== On Complete Phase

During this phase, you can configure the runtime to create a report or summary of the records it processed in a given batch job instance. This phase provides system administrators and developers insight into which records failed or succeeded, but it does not process or provide access to individual records, nor does it pass processed records to downstream processors in the flow.

As a best practice, configure a mechanism for reporting on failed or successful records to facilitate further action where required. During the On Complete phase, you can perform either of these tasks:

> * Reference the result object for the batch job instance from elsewhere in the Mule application to capture and use batch metadata, such as the number of records that failed to process in a particular batch job instance.

Author: TODO: NEED TO SHOW HOW TO DO THIS. Are we storing in object store or something from within <on-complete /> and calling it later?

    <batch:step name="Step2">
      <logger/>
      <http:request/>
    </batch:step>
  </batch:process-records>
  <batch:on-complete>
    <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
            message='#[payload as Object]'/>
  </batch:on-complete>
</batch:job>
----

From the logger set to `payload as Object`, a report looks something like this:

----
INFO  2022-07-06 11:39:02,921 [[MuleRuntime].uber.06:
[w-batch-take6].batch-management-work-manager @56978b97]
[processor: w-batch-take6Flow/processors/3/route/1/processors/0;
 event: e835b2c0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97]
org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor:
{onCompletePhaseException=null, loadingPhaseException=null, totalRecords=1000, elapsedTimeInMillis=117, failedOnCompletePhase=false, failedRecords=0, loadedRecords=1000, failedOnInputPhase=false, successfulRecords=1000, inputPhaseException=null, processedRecords=10, failedOnLoadingPhase=false, batchJobInstanceId=e84b5da0-fd5a-11ec-84a5-147ddaaf4f97}
----

The fields in the report object (a `BatchJobResult`) are accessible as keys when using DataWeave selectors, such as `payload.failedRecords` to return the number of failed records in the instance.

> If you leave the On Complete phase empty and do not reference the batch job result object from elsewhere in your application, the batch job simply completes, whether failed or successful. However, after Mule completes execution of an entire batch job instance, the logs provide some processing information, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you leave the On Complete phase empty, the batch job will silently complete. However, the logs will still provide some processing information, for example:
```

Author: TODO: style change "will"

Author: DONE: changed to

> 
If you leave the On Complete phase empty, the batch job instance silently completes, and the logs provide processing information about the instance, for example:
